this is the water and this is the well
drink fall and subscribe just hit
subscribe part 8 of Twin Peaks the
return was a little nutty and we've got
a lot of ground to cover
yeah I think yeah definitely so we're
going to start off with the easy part
which is the beginning of the episode
and then we'll go into the 1945 and
further before we get into a couple
Easter eggs a little bit more plot stuff
and your comments okay so let's go back
to last week not too far
bad Cooper was talking to warden Murphy
he was making his request he wanted a
car he also wanted a friend in the glove
compartment
rated honor rated honor weighted honor
wrong you lose God dater first off we're
back to the moving plotline that we came
out of part seven with it seems like
we're staying the course yes we've got
mr. C and Ray in the car they're heading
somewhere that worried about the cops we
see mr. C execute some like tradecraft
with his phone he knows that there are
tracking devices on the car they roll up
on a tractor-trailer and text out his
mm-hmm license plate so like lose their
tail and then he chucked the phone out
the window so far so good right ray
chrissakes toward mr. C for some money
before he'll miss information that he's
looking for okay everything's still
going down the plan passed that we
thought it was going to go right this is
this is all going according to plan ray
gets out to take a leak and while he's
doing that we know what's happening next
mr. C is going into the glove
compartment he's finding his friend
Chioda it's loaded you checks it
everything's good to go all right ray
you're screwed and then David Lynch
turns the car around on all of us so ray
shoots mr. C instead before he can even
finish the jobs like he goes in to look
put one in the brain but before he can
even get the shot off we see just like
the herd of black ghosts II people
coming in and that turns into like some
kind of crazy ritual ray watches and
shock just like all of us at home we
have the same base probably at this
point what the hell during this ritual
we see the black ghost people extract
what we will be referring to as the bob
orb from the chest of mr. C now we don't
know if this means that bob is no longer
with mr. Cooper
but that might be the case like now we
might have a new mr. Cooper going
forward you go back remember when mr. C
says in the mirror here's to us man
that's good this may just be mr. C
moving forward without Bob infants we
don't know that know for certain right
but it also means that all of those sort
of plot ideas we had a mr. Cooper sort
of planning everything as things have
happened throughout the series so far
isn't necessarily lost ya know because
he's not dead which is also what I think
a lot of us were thinking all the way
into the musical scene that followed
this thing about that whole sequence
leading up to the gunshot and II think
he's dead and then it cuts threatened to
a Wizard of Oz being dong the witch is
dead and who playing it Nine Inch Nails
excuse me
B Nine Inch Nails the nine man detail I
know I'm the broken record about Mahal
and drive but just a little connection
to make there the theme of the emcee in
the nightclub is totally reminiscent
Theatre in mall and if if this continues
I would not be surprised if we see that
guy again
now the big thing we can take from that
too before we get to everything else
that happened ray talks to the whip
Jeffries wine apparently his voicemail
ray talks to Jeffries he says that
Cooper got some helped him somewhere
so definitely an awareness of not just
being freaked out like he he's
processing that experience ray kind of
has an idea of the otherworldly
situations going on right and he even
believed it and he says that I saw saw
penny Cooper it's maybe the key what
this is all about and I think it's
important about that is that it shows
that the Jeffries side of this plotline
is also investigating and trying to find
things out they don't know everything
and then he brings up that if he's not
dead
well I got another plan for them at the
forum now whatever that farm is we don't
know just yet dead dog farm right that's
the episode awesome guys thanks for
watching so much make sure we hit us up
in the comment section below and as
always keep it okay okay okay fine we're
going to do it all right let's do this
we got to talk about everything that
happened you guys let's do it coffee
okay coffee okay alright so I sit down
this episode can awesome mr. C Cooper is
dead
and now we have 9s meals playing and
then the episode hits us with a
flashback oh no so right off the bat
though I'm thinking now we're definitely
tying things into secret history like
this is the first nuclear bomb test we
know Douglas Milford was there we're
going into some esoteric like alien and
nuclear history stuff and that is not
really what happened
no and right when you go inside the
mushroom cloud you get particle firework
effects and then this is the moment
where David Lynch fans and Twin Peaks
fans collide
listen I love twin peaks' but I'm a huge
David Lynch fan and this was awesome I
loved I actually loved it too I'm
usually kind of a prickly pear about
when I feel like there's a no mod
happening to Stanley Kubrick because I'm
a huge Stanley Kubrick man and the first
few minutes of this sequence are like
straight out of the Stargate in 2001 the
Thunder s Peace Corps is reminiscent of
that and also the Penta rescue was used
in the shining so there's kind of
there's definitely like a feeling of
omage there what should be done I don't
think that's true I think you have very
definite ideas about what should be done
with Danny and I'd like to know what
they are recapping this little segment
we have a nuclear explosion that sort of
opens up the gate or portal or whatever
lessen the pain and sorrow we see the
convenience store which may be related
to the convenience store that is the
portal to the lodge from there we start
to see that this is maybe more of an
origin story about where Bob came from
we've got the Garmin Bob Jay let's do
that again and then we see the
experiment which we've seen before and
that is spewing the badness out into the
world we believed at this point this is
sort of like a bob origin story because
we know that the history of a lot of
this darkness goes way before 1945 I
don't think this is the origin of the
black launch White Lodge this is the
origin possibly just the evil spewing
out into the world
after like this like this specific
catastrophic event which is sort of like
the modern part of the story next we're
flying over the ocean the ocean we've
seen before from a previous episode and
we come to a rocky island on top of
which sits a white palace type of
structure and we fly in through a tiny
window in that structure and then we're
in a small ring and who will you see in
there the giant but again the name is
not the giant in the credit it's just
question marks no names so there's a
woman sitting there listening to music
we've got the phonograph we've also got
in the room this large cone-shaped thing
that we've also seen before from when
Cooper went through from the Red Room
earlier in the series and these are like
everywhere in the sequence - there's
many of them
so the cone-shaped electric thing in the
room is making noise the woman is just
sitting there sort of tolerating it the
giant shows up he stares off into space
for a moment and then very sort of
slowly and casually turns the thing off
and leaves the room yes I have to think
that's an alarm going off to let them
know [ __ ] has gone yeah right because
from there he travels at a snail's pace
through another part of the building and
comes to a movie theater and in the
movie theater as the screen comes on
we're actually seeing is an exact replay
a sort of genesis of darkness that we
just talk after this giant floats up
into the air the woman comes into the
room gold stuff just starts emanating
from his head into like a pool above his
head and then out of that pool comes a
round orb that floats down to the woman
that has the face of Laura Palmer in it
and then she kisses the orb and lets it
go and then it drifts up into like a
pipe or Ford of some variety that then
turns to face the screen there's a
series of gears and electrical work and
then it passes the orb into the movie
screen and the orb goes to earth and
makes perfect sense I mean I I think
that you know we got a lot of sympathy
for having to cover this but I mean so
far this is about as straightforward as
a plot can be so a couple ideas about
this that I have is that first of all I
think we're in the White Lodge I think
that you know what this does is that
this gives perspective to the very first
scene of the entire series where Dale is
sitting with the Giant that's where we
get four-30 that's where we get Richard
and Linda and it now creates the
possibility for us that that scene takes
place in the past that it's not it's not
directly related to the other Red Room
scenes that just in almost a whole
universe of possibility opens up now
because we've been we've now actually
got more context to those characters
every time you see that room but it's
only in black and white right however
when Dale leaves the Red Room and he
comes to that mysterious place where we
first see the ocean
that sequence is in color and it's very
likely or very possible that that is
actually a different part of the
timeline
depending on how time works in the white
lodge but his experience there with the
maybe ronette Pulaski and the mother
banging on the door is like just another
part of time in this place something
else to think about too is that now
we're seeing you know with the presence
of that like electrical comb thing and
remembering back to major Briggs his
head in space this adds more to the
major Briggs was in the White Lodge and
traveling in and out of it over time as
well is this feature or
that you could have been traveling for
the light lodge and popped out present
day where he guy's head cut off right
now who is seniorita Dido I don't know
they have this mother Levi resolve we
solved the evil experiment possibly
spewing out the creation of Bob and then
we have this senior the ego spewing out
the good to counteract what just
happened definitely there's a connection
there we see very clearly this is a
response to the evil spewing out and
it's interesting to that it's like this
this starts to give the impression of
like the cosmic chess game like they're
sending something to earth but that
isn't going to really like blossom for
another like 30 years when Laura Palmer
comes out so it definitely got this long
cosmic game thing going on I really like
that bad orb really is Laura Palmer that
changes everything right that totally
elevates the role of Laura Palmer in the
cosmic scheme of things and like to say
that takes this these interactions to
another level and broken record time
this is similar to how in Mahon Drive
there's a point where you kind of see
the spiritual elevation and concept of
the two female leads where Camila's
doppelganger and betty or die die and
depending on how you're looking at it
become more clearly just a sort of
spiritual part of that universe and we
see that most clearly come through in a
theater environment so that's that part
mm-hmm now our flashback goes forward in
time we go from 1945 to 1956 just to
plug in here real quick before we get to
what happens in 1956 in the secret
history of Twin Peaks we do learn that
in that interim period of time Jack
Parsons to douglas milford investigates
did go out to the same desert to perform
a ritual and to find a gate there we
don't know much more than that
but
come up so it's worth mentioning okay so
then we fast-forward to 1956 where we
see that egg that was spewed out earlier
right and we get a beetle frog / rabid
thing yeah that just sort of crawled its
way across the sand data frame totally
horrifying and kind of beautiful
creature effects if you ask me next we
see the black ghost people materialize
in the desert and start heading off into
the darkness they come across the road a
couple driving down the highway come
across these black goes to people and
one of them comes up to the car with a
cigarette and says sorry
and now this is where formally
introduced to the woodsman character
right now they he they speak yes we now
know that they can talk the couple
wisely gets the heck out of Dodge and we
go over to now a kind of almost bitter
sweet innocent awkward first date I was
on and that whole scene where just
walking down the street oh yeah she
burns the penny on the ground and it's
heads up and it's good luck mm-hmm sure
they have a little moment give her a
kiss
he's walked her home very sweet very
sweet okay now we're over to KP JK radio
with my prayer by the platters boomin
and the woodsman approaches the radio
station and it starts to get ugly
he goes in there he finds a woman still
asking for a light just light a
cigarette damn it does nobody in New
Mexico have a lighter next the woodsman
goes into the booth where the DJ is asks
for a light and then sort of subdues him
while taking over the radio and from
here we see that there's people
throughout the whole area that are
listening to the radio including the
girl from the date and people at diner
and gas station and then he says this is
water and this is no well drink full add
this and the horse is the white of the
eyes and dark ahead over and over and
over again what this does though is it
has a calming sleepy effect on everyone
in town I don't know what it scared the
hell out of me but everyone else just
sort of succumbs to sleep and the next
thing we see is our frog beetle rabbit
monster friend fly up to the window of
the house into the house and then crawl
gruesomely slowly into the mouths of the
young girl from the day that seems to me
to see for either Bob or Laura I'm on
the edge to think that Bob because what
you hear at the very end of that
sequence at the during the rolling
credits you hear the static the
electricity be evil brewing inside
absolutely I mean I think what we see is
that this town is being infested by the
evil and very likely because we've met
these characters this one is Bob so the
one line the horse is the white of the
eye then the dark within you can bring
up the white horse that we've seen
multiple times in Twin Peaks right the
white horse is a recurring theme we saw
it when Cooper was leaving the Red Room
we've also seen it
way back in fire walk with me days with
Sarah Palmer she saw it just after Lee
Lane drugged her and also a lot of
things the white horse involves elements
of drug use and evil feeling
yet okay so that pretty much covers the
things that go on in the episode and if
there's anything that you guys saw that
we didn't bring up here please leave it
in the comments because it's definitely
a brain teaser we got a two weeks to put
an extra episode so let us know okay so
now we want to move on to some Easter
eggs that you thought that you thought
were pretty cool yeah the little ones
they're not too big but they're awesome
so when the woodsman disappears what do
you hear
you divorced from the background that's
awesome so again but white horse again
evils come in harbinger of death next up
if you're looking at mr. Cooper's
cellphone while he is typing in the
license plate of the truck in front of
them on the freeway you see the
autocorrect and one of the autocorrect
before he finishes typing in the license
plate is they got the guy of course is
famous for some ballerina paintings and
then also one of my favorite shots
season three so far harkens back to one
of his paintings I thought that was
awesome one of the things that we also
keep coming back to when trying to
figure out things in the series is the
card that Bob showed to Daria
earlier in the series and there have
been a lot of interpretations and
comparisons it looks a little bit like
Cooper when he's coming through the hole
in the glass room it looks a little bit
like the al cave ring and now we've got
one more and now apparently another link
is the mother experiment character that
we saw sitting up at Gorman doja or in
very similar pose yes in a very similar
pose and what's cool about that scene -
the arms are bent backwards so against a
a dime's badge back if you go back to
fire walk with me in the scene where
Mike is screaming at Leland slash Bob he
says
and now you look back at the convenience
store what do you see in the window cans
that's cool mm-hmm one last one comes
with the woodsman who had a you know
really sort of Lincolnesque beard going
on well the actor who plays the woodsman
you can actually hire that guy to play
Lincoln you can book him to show up at
your kids next birthday party as Abraham
Lincoln if you wanted to
who knows what Lincoln has to do with
this printed story line but that's kind
of cool well every hand Lincoln is a
Vampire Slayer this is confirmed okay
let's get to some of the comments we got
from the audience on YouTube and Twitter
so we got a correction from the end of
last week's episode when someone burst
into the diner and screams it's Billy
not being being Israeli Lynch's
character in the episode right the
producers confirm that there was a typo
in the closed caption and in fairness I
think we just heard what we wanted to
hear it makes sense in hindsight to that
you would see the the named character
finally credited for being a speaking
part in the closing title Robert Ward in
the YouTube comments said the sound and
Ben Horne's room from last week where
they were trying to figure out where the
sound was Tibetan Bowl or not is the
same sound made by the arm when he rubs
his hands together in the 25 years later
referencing
I think that's actually a pretty good
catch yeah like you know just again the
themes have sound in every episode it's
totally important to be listening as
much as you're watching and it's a good
guy lastly from the YouTube comments
last week oh-whoa Yi says I was quite
surprised by the odd hair and poseur
demeanor and was wondering where winch
was going with Diane obviously anyone
who is touched by Bob is very damaged
that they survived the white hair a
symbol of being hurt by Bob I hadn't
thought of that because we've never seen
Diane before we don't know whether she
always had white hair or when she got
white hair and it just made me realize
like Pratt like she she could have had
the Leland Palmer experience and we just
don't know it yet
lastly we want to thank us on Twitter
and actually quite a few people on
Twitter and in the YouTube comments from
last week for showing support for
tackling part 8 of the return because
whoo howdy thank you so much two weeks
before the next episode so we're going
to try and produce a cool feature in
there for you guys and let us know what
you're interested in looking at well let
us know if you want to do more deep dive
break down into specific characters
appointees maybe major bridge let us
know in the comment section below what
you want to see as always guys later
[Music]